>> Mike North: So
we're going to go through the solution for
this second exercise and
what you'll get into the habit of doing
as we start working with a type
script editing environment.
You'll start to learn to look at
these problems that pop up and I'm
using visual studio code, it's what a lot
of people use to work with Type Script.
I'm sure you can set other
editors up to do a similar thing.
But what it's complaining about
is all of these implecent any's.
So I'm hovering over this
register function and
this tool keeps popping up telling me
that email and password, there's no way,
since I'm not really doing anything with
this data other than sort of placing it
into an object down here on line 14 and
pushing it then to an array.
There's no way for
me to know what type those are, right?
There's no tail tale sign that like
those values are of any particular type.
So all I can do in order to make
sense of the situation is say I wanna
give it the most flexible type
that exists and that is any.
In our Type Script configuration and
we will learn about this file bit by
bit.
>> Mike North: So this tsconfigjson
this setting here is what's leading it
to complain about our complicit anys.
So we will learn about different things
you can do in this compiler options
object bit by bit.
But that is where this is coming from.
So let's begin.
So we're gonna define what
it means to be a user.
And for that, we're going to build
an interface called user, all right.
It's complaining about an empty interface.
This doesn't do us any good to define
an interface that has no properties.
That would be the same as basically
an interface that looks like
an object literal, right?
But we know here we've got an email.
That's a string.
And a password that's a string.
And now we can actually take
this users object here and
we will talk about arrays
a little bit later on.
Now you didn't have to do this but
you could do something like this
>> Mike North: So
now we know that users is an array of
objects that conform to that structure.
They could have additional properties,
they don't necessarily have to.
So down here, I'm gonna say I'm taking
in an email, which is a string and
a password, which is a string.
And I am returning an object
that looks like this.
Now it says it's returning an object
that has an email and a password here.
That is, that conforms to
the same structure as a user.
But you note that I didn't have to
explicitly define the return type here.
Transcripts pretty good at figuring
out what you're returning.
And, in this case I just want it
to refer to it by the name, user.
It's got a semantic name for it now.
That's the only reason I
had to add that there.
Everything would've been happy,
except me the developer.
So activate new user and
I've got user to approve.
So, if I were to say this user
to approve is type user, and
the approver is type user.
We're gonna get a little
bit of a problem here.
So is active is not on user
Admin since is not on type user.
So what we can do here is,
we can do something like this.
There are many approaches
you could've taken.
>> Mike North: And then deliberately,
I'm trying to avoid things that
we haven't talked about yet.
>> Mike North: So there's a confirmed user
and then we can have an admin
that goes one step farther.
Oops one click poured brook for me.
>> Mike North: And
adminSince is the last
thing that's missing here.
And what should I put for the type here?
>> Student: Date.
>> Mike North: So you can use any
constructor as the type in addition
to those primitive types and
interfaces.
>> Mike North: And
here the approver must be an admin,
so now this is great, I've got some
nice constraints that describe
exactly what I'm looking for here.
Registering creates a new user,
activating a new user.
Actually this is gonna
take in a regular user.
But it's gonna return a ConfirmedUser.
And what we can do here to make, so
what it's complaining about is
essentially we are mutating in place.
Think about that,
I mean we are mutating in place this user.
We're gonna do that anyway,
but we have to define it.
We have to kind of get
a new reference to it
with a type as we transition
it into this confirmed user.
So we could do something like
this.
>> Mike North: And
now TypeScript will be happy.
So it's an extra line of code, but it does
serve the purpose of helping us understand
we're being very deliberate
about stepping over this line.
We could even do something like this.
>> Mike North: And
avoid the one line.
>> Mike North: Well,
no, we're still gonna
have to do it that way.
Anyway, better to have it be explicit.
But in some cases,
you can do it in two steps.
Doing it in one step.
Sorry.
All right we're returning a confirmed
user, promoting to admin.
So we'll say in order for a user to
be promoted to admin it has to be
confirmed and only and
admin user can do the confirming.
And so again here we're gonna say
let newadmin = user as Admin.
>> Mike North: Something like that.
Now we might be going overboard and
being so
explicit about defining all
of these different states.
But the end result here is if we were
to say, I've got a new user down
here.
>> Mike North: E-mail.
>> Mike North: So that's our
user.
>> Mike North: And
we're to say.
>> Mike North: Sorry AM.
>> Mike North: Lets make ourselves
an admin too.
>> Mike North: Just became an admin.
So promoteToAdmin and we're gonna pass in,
>> Mike North: Pass in our admin.
And passing that user,
it's basically in the complaint and
say, this is an unconfirmed user.
So this kind of thing like because
we've defined these types, now imagine
how this might work, like effectively
we got a little bit of state machine or
the makings of it now where, you know,
we take in an object of one type and
we add a field,
then it becomes another type.
And as we have references to these things,
we're catching something now where this
was potentially a not confirmed user, and
this would have been something where we'd
depend on dynamic validation in order to
catch it, and we have to be lucky that we
have the right test in place to nail this.
But now, at build time,
we get some feedback saying hey,
this user wasn't confirmed yet.
You can even go up here.
We'll learn about this
a little more later.
We can say, this isn't just a boolean.
It is what's called a literal type.
So the value of this property is true.
And what that means is if
I go down here and I say,
false, even if this guy is confirmed.
Sorry.
Confirm user, let's see.
[SOUND] Interesting, is active site.
Sorry, I have to do it down here as well.
>> Mike North: So
now down here it's complaining to
me that like, that flag there,
[LAUGH] it's either absent or it's true.
and so
we've left a marker on there that says,
look, you have to have this thing and
it has to be of that specific value, or
I'm not going to regard you
as that particular type.
So there's a whole lot more feedback
we're getting here instantly
right in our editor than we'd be able to
get with or dynamically typed JavaScript.
It's really cool to do this, really
cool to be able to get this so early and
so quickly.
Last thing I wanna show you is we've
done this in sort of a silly way.
There's a lot of redundancy up here,
you can treat interfaces in a similar
way that you would treat classes.
We'll dive into this a little bit more
later, but I'm just gonna commit this as
the solution.
>> Mike North: So
with say that this confirmed user has
everything user has except that also has
that active property on and
that's got to be true.
And admin has all of that and
adds admin since.
So now, this is a much more reasonable
way to define the different states that
a user could be in,
with different structures, right.
These are three different shapes that
describe different things our code needs.
And if we draw outside the lines in here,
where like we're in JavaScript, we would
risk potentially creating incompatibility
with objects that are in other states.
Here, we'll get some feedback.
For example,
if when it use a registers, or
like we say here is, we'll just
change the surround a little bit.
Because we define this as a user now.
We don't need that annotation at the end,
it's basically gonna infer that
this is the value you're returning.
And it's not simply this structure here,
it has a name, you've given it one.
That's all I did by moving that down.
But if I were to do something like this.
>> Mike North: I'm not allowed to do this.
Now and this ensures that this function
here, where I'm registering or
whatever I'm doing here with this user,
it stays generic.
It stays in a state where I'm working
with things that work across all users,
regardless of whether they're confirmed or
whether they're an admin.
This would be tough to do, tough to get
this kind of compile time feedback.
With lose objects that don't have
that rigidity of structure that
we have to define up front.
All right so, yes question.
>> Student: Yeah,
around line 56 you have the new
user as admin right there.
So, new admin,
there's no way you can ask type script
what type is this variable out of here,
right?
Cuz it doesn't really have a type.
It just has properties.
>> Mike North: So yes, that's right.
That's where we're talking about
structural typing instead of nominal type.
So you would say, what's your structure.
>> Student: Yeah.
>> Mike North: And it would say,
I have these properties, and the
properties can have the following types.
And on top of that, there's no way to
write that in code because you have to
remember this is almost like linting plus.
>> Student: Right.
>> Mike North: So there's no run time
reflection API or anything that would say
are you an instance of this interface?
>> Student: So then on line 56 too,
since you haven't defined adminSince,
if you returned newAdmin but
promote expecting admin to return,
would it err because you'd actually
have it in front of that property?
>> Mike North: Can
you try to ask that a different way?
>> Student: Definitely,
so right now, newAdmin on line 56,
doesn't have all the properties,
this of admin interface.
>> Mike North: Correct.
>> Student: It doesn't have admin
sets.
>> Mike North: Correct.
>> Student: So if you try to return it
online 58 without 57 would you
get some sort of type error?
>> Mike North: The value of that property
would be undefined.
In the same way that if I
were to do something like
this
>> Mike North: All values of this
property are undefined.
>> Student: Umm, got it, so it's adding
the property, just giving it no value.
>> Mike North: Yes.
>> Student: Cool.
>> Mike North: It has the shape, and
we can mutate values, right, but undefined
is still a thing that can happen there.
Now what we could have done, there would
have been a way to do this in one shot,
but I would have looked something like,
we don't know these operators yet.
User.
>> Mike North: So
that also makes typescript happy.
This is basically saying,
take everything on user,
unpack it into an object in addition to
that add this property called adminSince.
And let's regard that
whole thing as admin.
And in fact I don't even need this,
simply because all that did for
me was give this structure a name.
We'll learn about that later, I just want
you to know that this extra line of code,
which is rightly potentially bugging some
people like why did we have to have this
extra line.
It's just x=y.
We will get rid of it but
we have to learn more about operators and
enhanced object literals and
things like that in order to get there.
But a hopefully you see the benefit
of types here, where we have so
much more structure and
compile time assurance to run this code
than we ever could with java script.
I've changed the format of
the branches a little bit so
there's a per excercise completion branch.
I have to catch up and do the next
exercise, it will be no problem, but
it's gonna follow this form femasters/ and
then the exercise number slash complete.
So if you wanna jump in and
out of this course later on and you know,
just try one exercise,
you can check out the begin branch and
that will get you queued up for
the right exercise and then the complete.
Branch will have this solution.
So, with that let's keep diving in to
some modern TypeScript,
JavaScript concepts, and what we're going
to touch on next, we're actually going
back to the JavaScript world and
we're going to talk about classes.
So first of in the room.
Who is using ES 2015 classes,
who is using a class in JavaScript?
Great, most everyone yeah this is
starting to become the new norm for
object oriented JavaScript programming.
So we're gonna be in
the JavaScript world for now,
classes are the go to thing
in type script as well,
there are some subtle differences
that we're going to cover so
we're going to be talking
about JavaScript now.
Don't panic if you see some code and for
some reason you're testing it out on
your machine and you see some errors,
we will clarify all of those errors and
get aligned with type script in a moment.